README.md, before:

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations)
[![Latest](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations)](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/releases/latest)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/actions/workflows/build.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/actions/workflows/build.yaml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations)
[![Users](https://img.shields.io/badge/users_by-Sourcegraph-purple)](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=content:gmazzo/publish-report-annotations%40+-repo:github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations)

# publish-report-annotations
Reports JUnit, Android Lint, Detekt and any other CheckStyle compatible XML reports as GitHub Actions annotations.
Mostly targeting Gradle builds

#### JUnit's reports
![junit](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/assets/513566/57ba4328-0318-48b5-9d91-22113c4387bb)

#### Checkstyle (and compatibles, like Detekt)s reports
![checkstyle/detekt](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/assets/513566/10979561-f1d3-48ef-a168-d416d866f2cc)

#### Android Lint's reports
![android lint](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/assets/513566/cedf8726-0633-43d4-ae6a-3371362f3e8c)

#### Detailed logs
![logs](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/assets/513566/4d2a3224-c326-4948-bf58-6aec18715818)

#### Summaries
![PR status check](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/assets/513566/434289a0-6d4d-4226-ad4c-49554080df80)

| Test Suites                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | ✅ 93 passed | 🟡 1 skipped | ❌ 4 failed | ⌛ took |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|--------------|------------|--------|
| <details><summary>✅ org.test.sample.AnotherTestSuite</summary><ul><li>✅ aTest[maxDuration=100] (⌛ 0.054)</li><li>✅ aTest[maxDuration=200] (⌛ 0.107)</li><li>✅ aTest[maxDuration=300] (⌛ 0.238)</li><li>✅ aTest[maxDuration=400] (⌛ 0.103)</li></ul></details>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | 4           | 0            | 0          | 0.506  |
| <details><summary>❌ org.test.sample.FlakyFailingTestSuite</summary><ul><li>❌ failingTest() (⌛ 0.011)</li></ul></details>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 0           | 0            | 1          | 2.07   |
| <details><summary>❎❗org.test.sample.FlakyTestSuite [^flakyDisclaimer]</summary><ul><li>❎❗[^flakyDisclaimer]flakyTest() (⌛ 0.005)</li></ul></details>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 1           | 0            | 0          | 1.295  |
| <details><summary>❌ org.test.sample.SampleTestSuite</summary><ul><li>🟡 a test skipped() (⌛ 0)</li><li>❌ a test that fails() (⌛ 0.002)</li><li>✅ a test that passes() (⌛ 0.001)</li><li>❌ a test that throws an exception() (⌛ 0.001)</li></ul></details>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 1           | 1            | 2          | 0.004  |

[^flakyDisclaimer]: ❎❗flaky test (some executions have passed, others have failed)

| detekt             | 🛑 0 errors | ⚠️ 1 warning | 💡 0 others |
|:-------------------|-------------|--------------|-------------|
| NewLineAtEndOfFile | 0           | 1            | 0           |

| Android Lint                   | 🛑 0 errors | ⚠️ 1 warning | 💡 0 others |
|:-------------------------------|-------------|--------------|-------------|
| Correctness / GradleDependency | 0           | 1            | 0           |

## Usage
On your workflow file add:
```yaml
steps:
  - name: Run Gradle build
    run: ./gradlew build # this is an example
  - name: Report build results
    uses: gmazzo/publish-report-annotations@v1 # target latest major
    if: ${{ !cancelled() }}
```

### Configuration
| option                  | usage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | default                                                          |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `token`                 | The GitHub token to use to create a check (with `checks: write` permission).<br/><br/><sub>Only required if `checkName` is also set</sub>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | `${{ github.token }}`                                            |
| `appId` and `appSecret` | The GitHub App pairs (ID and prvate key) to use to create a check (with `checks: write` permission).<br/><br/>The app needs to be installed in the repo and with `pull_request: read` and `checks: write` permissions<br/><br/><sub>Only required if `checkName` is also set and `token` is not set</sub>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | None (uses `token` if set)                                       |
| `checkName`             | The name of the check to create. <br/><sub>If not set, no check will be created and annotations will be reported to the workflow run</sub>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | None (reports to workflow run)                                   |
| `reports`               | A multiple line list of `glob`s pattern to look for reports                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | `**/build/test-results/**/*.xml`<br/>`**/build/reports/**/*.xml` |
| `testsSummary`          | The kind of summary to report for tests:<ul><li>`full`<br/>Reports all test suites with their test casses</li><li>`suitesOnly`<br/>Reports all test suites aggregating outcome of its tests cases, but without reporting the test cases itself</li><li>`totals`<br/>Reports aggregated totals of all suites</li><li>`off`<br/>Does not report any test to the summary</li></ul><br/>⚠️ Keep in mind on large builds, it may reach [the GitHub's limit (65535 characters)](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/checks/runs?apiVersion=2022-11-28#create-a-check-run-output-object) on large builds. Try reducing the level of details if that's the case | `full`                                                           |
| `checksSummary`         | The kind of summary to report into the checks<ul><li>`full`<br/>Reports all the checks, one table per check type</li><li>`off`<br/>Does not report any checks to the summary</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | `full`                                                           |
| `filterPassedTests`     | To reduce verbosity (and summary size), skips tests (suites and cases) that has ✅ passed from reporting into the summary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | `false`                                                          |                                                         | `false` |
| `filterChecks`          | Reports only check's annotations coming from files that have been changed in the PR (does not affect to tests)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | `false`                                                          |
| `detectFlakyTests`      | Enables support for flaky tests detection (assumed the ones with the same `classname` and `name` are retries of the same test).<br/><br/>If at least once execution of them passes, then the overall outcome will considered passed. The suite will be reported as `flaky` as well and the last failure will annotated as a warning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | `false`                                                          |
| `warningsAsErrors`      | If any warning is reported should count as an error. Mostly used in conjunction with `failOnError`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `false`                                                          |
| `failOnError`           | If the action should fail if any error is reported                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `false`                                                          |

#### Advanced reporting as a GitHub App (if `appId` and `appSecret` are not enough)
When `checkName` is set, a new check-run will be created by this actions.
If you provide `appId` and `appSecret` it will be used to resolve an installation token to impersonate the action as a GitHub App.

If this is not enough for your needs, you can rely on the official [create-github-app-token](https://github.com/actions/create-github-app-token):
```yaml
    steps:
      - uses: actions/create-github-app-token@v1
        id: app-token
        with:
          app-id: ${{ vars.APP_ID }}
          private-key: ${{ secrets.PRIVATE_KEY }}
      - uses: gmazzo/publish-report-annotations@v1
        with:
          token: ${{ steps.app-token.outputs.token }}
```
For further references about how to acquire a GitHub App installation token, check the former action documentation.

### Outputs
The action will output the number of errors and warnings found in the reports, aggregated by `tests`, `checks` and totals:

| output   | description            | example                                                                                    |
|----------|------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `tests`  | The totals of `tests`  | <pre lang="json">{ "count": 8, "passed": 4, "errors": 0, "skipped": 2, "failed": 2 }</pre> |
| `checks` | The totals of `checks` | <pre lang="json">{ "count": 12, "errors": 6, "warnings": 4, "others": 2 }</json>           |
| `total`  | The aggregated totals  | <pre lang="json">{ "errors": 20, "warnings": 8, "others": 12 }</json>                      |

Commit message:

feat: Added `workflowSummary` flag to allow reporting to both PR and check (#90)

README.md, after:

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations)
[![Latest](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations)](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/releases/latest)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/actions/workflows/build.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/actions/workflows/build.yaml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations)
[![Users](https://img.shields.io/badge/users_by-Sourcegraph-purple)](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=content:gmazzo/publish-report-annotations%40+-repo:github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations)

# publish-report-annotations
Reports JUnit, Android Lint, Detekt and any other CheckStyle compatible XML reports as GitHub Actions annotations.
Mostly targeting Gradle builds

#### JUnit's reports
![junit](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/assets/513566/57ba4328-0318-48b5-9d91-22113c4387bb)

#### Checkstyle (and compatibles, like Detekt)s reports
![checkstyle/detekt](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/assets/513566/10979561-f1d3-48ef-a168-d416d866f2cc)

#### Android Lint's reports
![android lint](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/assets/513566/cedf8726-0633-43d4-ae6a-3371362f3e8c)

#### Detailed logs
![logs](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/assets/513566/4d2a3224-c326-4948-bf58-6aec18715818)

#### Summaries
![PR status check](https://github.com/gmazzo/publish-report-annotations/assets/513566/434289a0-6d4d-4226-ad4c-49554080df80)

| Test Suites                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | ✅ 93 passed | 🟡 1 skipped | ❌ 4 failed | ⌛ took |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|--------------|------------|--------|
| <details><summary>✅ org.test.sample.AnotherTestSuite</summary><ul><li>✅ aTest[maxDuration=100] (⌛ 0.054)</li><li>✅ aTest[maxDuration=200] (⌛ 0.107)</li><li>✅ aTest[maxDuration=300] (⌛ 0.238)</li><li>✅ aTest[maxDuration=400] (⌛ 0.103)</li></ul></details>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | 4           | 0            | 0          | 0.506  |
| <details><summary>❌ org.test.sample.FlakyFailingTestSuite</summary><ul><li>❌ failingTest() (⌛ 0.011)</li></ul></details>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 0           | 0            | 1          | 2.07   |
| <details><summary>❎❗org.test.sample.FlakyTestSuite [^flakyDisclaimer]</summary><ul><li>❎❗[^flakyDisclaimer]flakyTest() (⌛ 0.005)</li></ul></details>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 1           | 0            | 0          | 1.295  |
| <details><summary>❌ org.test.sample.SampleTestSuite</summary><ul><li>🟡 a test skipped() (⌛ 0)</li><li>❌ a test that fails() (⌛ 0.002)</li><li>✅ a test that passes() (⌛ 0.001)</li><li>❌ a test that throws an exception() (⌛ 0.001)</li></ul></details>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 1           | 1            | 2          | 0.004  |

[^flakyDisclaimer]: ❎❗flaky test (some executions have passed, others have failed)

| detekt             | 🛑 0 errors | ⚠️ 1 warning | 💡 0 others |
|:-------------------|-------------|--------------|-------------|
| NewLineAtEndOfFile | 0           | 1            | 0           |

| Android Lint                   | 🛑 0 errors | ⚠️ 1 warning | 💡 0 others |
|:-------------------------------|-------------|--------------|-------------|
| Correctness / GradleDependency | 0           | 1            | 0           |

## Usage
On your workflow file add:
```yaml
steps:
  - name: Run Gradle build
    run: ./gradlew build # this is an example
  - name: Report build results
    uses: gmazzo/publish-report-annotations@v1 # target latest major
    if: ${{ !cancelled() }}
```

### Configuration
| option                  | usage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | default                                                          |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `token`                 | The GitHub token to use to create a check (with `checks: write` permission).<br/><br/><sub>Only required if `checkName` is also set</sub>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | `${{ github.token }}`                                            |
| `appId` and `appSecret` | The GitHub App pairs (ID and prvate key) to use to create a check (with `checks: write` permission).<br/><br/>The app needs to be installed in the repo and with `pull_request: read` and `checks: write` permissions<br/><br/><sub>Only required if `checkName` is also set and `token` is not set</sub>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | None (uses `token` if set)                                       |
| `checkName`             | The name of the check to create. <br/><sub>If not set, no check will be created and annotations will be reported to the workflow run</sub>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | None (reports to workflow run)                                   |
| `workflowSummary`       | Whether to report the summary to the running workflow or not. <br/><sub>Force `workflowSummary: true` in conjunction with `checkName` to have the summary reported on both, the workflow's run and the check</sub>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `true` if `checkName` is not set, or `false` otherwise           |
| `reports`               | A multiple line list of `glob`s pattern to look for reports                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | `**/build/test-results/**/*.xml`<br/>`**/build/reports/**/*.xml` |
| `testsSummary`          | The kind of summary to report for tests:<ul><li>`full`<br/>Reports all test suites with their test casses</li><li>`suitesOnly`<br/>Reports all test suites aggregating outcome of its tests cases, but without reporting the test cases itself</li><li>`totals`<br/>Reports aggregated totals of all suites</li><li>`off`<br/>Does not report any test to the summary</li></ul><br/>⚠️ Keep in mind on large builds, it may reach [the GitHub's limit (65535 characters)](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/checks/runs?apiVersion=2022-11-28#create-a-check-run-output-object) on large builds. Try reducing the level of details if that's the case | `full`                                                           |
| `checksSummary`         | The kind of summary to report into the checks<ul><li>`full`<br/>Reports all the checks, one table per check type</li><li>`off`<br/>Does not report any checks to the summary</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | `full`                                                           |
| `filterPassedTests`     | To reduce verbosity (and summary size), skips tests (suites and cases) that has ✅ passed from reporting into the summary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | `false`                                                          |                                                         | `false` |
| `filterChecks`          | Reports only check's annotations coming from files that have been changed in the PR (does not affect to tests)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | `false`                                                          |
| `detectFlakyTests`      | Enables support for flaky tests detection (assumed the ones with the same `classname` and `name` are retries of the same test).<br/><br/>If at least once execution of them passes, then the overall outcome will considered passed. The suite will be reported as `flaky` as well and the last failure will annotated as a warning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | `false`                                                          |
| `warningsAsErrors`      | If any warning is reported should count as an error. Mostly used in conjunction with `failOnError`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `false`                                                          |
| `failOnError`           | If the action should fail if any error is reported                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `false`                                                          |

#### Advanced reporting as a GitHub App (if `appId` and `appSecret` are not enough)
When `checkName` is set, a new check-run will be created by this actions.
If you provide `appId` and `appSecret` it will be used to resolve an installation token to impersonate the action as a GitHub App.

If this is not enough for your needs, you can rely on the official [create-github-app-token](https://github.com/actions/create-github-app-token):
```yaml
    steps:
      - uses: actions/create-github-app-token@v1
        id: app-token
        with:
          app-id: ${{ vars.APP_ID }}
          private-key: ${{ secrets.PRIVATE_KEY }}
      - uses: gmazzo/publish-report-annotations@v1
        with:
          token: ${{ steps.app-token.outputs.token }}
```
For further references about how to acquire a GitHub App installation token, check the former action documentation.

### Outputs
The action will output the number of errors and warnings found in the reports, aggregated by `tests`, `checks` and totals:

| output   | description            | example                                                                                    |
|----------|------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `tests`  | The totals of `tests`  | <pre lang="json">{ "count": 8, "passed": 4, "errors": 0, "skipped": 2, "failed": 2 }</pre> |
| `checks` | The totals of `checks` | <pre lang="json">{ "count": 12, "errors": 6, "warnings": 4, "others": 2 }</json>           |
| `total`  | The aggregated totals  | <pre lang="json">{ "errors": 20, "warnings": 8, "others": 12 }</json>                      |
